# Friday, September 27, 2019

[Return to main page](index.md)

- Dean explaining some of the fundamental formulas/ratios he got from different tech companies.
    1. Quick Ratio
    2. Debt-to-Equity Ratio = (total debt/ total equity)
    3. Profitability Ratios
    4. Price/Sales ratio

- Should make a requirements.py file

## Adeet’s Presentation

### Classifying Directional Stock Price Movement
- Machine Learning - Computers being able to recognize patterns in a data set and then making predictions through the training/fit for that data set. You would then take that model and apply it to different data sets.

- Overfit - model is over compensating or learning pattern too well, and applying a specific pattern and in general that will not be the case. 

- It will predict either 1 or 0
    - 1 meaning price will increase the next day (upwards movement)
    - 0 meaning it will stay the same or decrease (stagnant/downwards movement)

- Random Walk theory - maximum prediction accuracy at 50%

- Efficient market hypothesis only good for long trends, not the best at predicting short spikes or trends. 

- Main Problem:
    - Two components
        - The information and data sources to gather
        - The information/data you want to feed into the algorithm

- Feature = another name for a variable

- Feature Testing: testing different variables to achieve the target.

- Doesn’t use price data because of multicollinearity. 
- Two variables would be very close/similar together and it could offset our best predictions from the model.

- For the indicators: accuracy in machine learning isn’t the best indicator to go buy.

- Precision and Recall are closely related

- Ensemble models could be the way to go. Basically taking a bunch of weak models and finding the averages between them in the feature testing, and trying to combine into a stronger model.